When people thought the Earth was flat, they were wrong. When people thought the Earth was spherical they were wrong. But if you think that thinking the Earth is spherical is just as wrong as thinking the Earth is flat, then your view is wronger than both of them put together.
Two things are infinite: the universe and human stupidity; and I'm not sure about the universe.
The important thing is not to stop questioning. Curiosity has its own reason for existing.
There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle.
Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance you must keep moving.
To every action there is always opposed an equal reaction.
Every body continues in its state of rest, or of uniform motion in a right line, unless it is compelled to change that state by forces impressed upon it.
To myself I am only a child playing on the beach, while vast oceans of truth lie undiscovered before me.
If freedom of speech is taken away, then dumb and silent we may be led, like sheep to the slaughter.
Who controls the past controls the future. Who controls the present controls the past.
It was a bright cold day in April, and the clocks were striking thirteen.
Science is a way of thinking much more than it is a body of knowledge.
Life is to be lived, not controlled; and humanity is won by continuing to play in face of certain defeat.
The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched - they must be felt with the heart.
Life is either a daring adventure, or nothing.
Alone we can do so little; together we can do so much.
One must acknowledge with cryptography no amount of violence will ever solve a math problem.
The value of achievement lies in the achieving.
Long live impudence! It’s my guardian angel in this world.
I always get by best with my naivety, which is 20 percent deliberate.
A happy man is too satisfied with the present to dwell too much on the future.
Nothing truly valuable arises from ambition or from a mere sense of duty; it stems rather from love and devotion toward men and toward objective things.
Three rules of work: Out of clutter find simplicity; From discord find harmony; In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.
On the mysterious: It is the fundamental emotion which stands at the cradle of true art and true science. He who knows it not and can no longer wonder, no longer feel amazement, is as good as dead, a snuffed-out candle.
I salute the man who is going through life always helpful, knowing no fear, and to whom aggressiveness and resentment are alien.
A calm and modest life brings more happiness than the pursuit of success combined with constant restlessness.
The only thing more dangerous than ignorance is arrogance.
Trees love to toss and sway; they make such happy noises.
You must be absolutely honest and true in the depicting of a totem for meaning is attached to every line. You must be most particular about detail and proportion.
Oh, Spring! I want to go out and feel you and get inspiration. My old things seem dead. I want fresh contacts, more vital searching.
There is something bigger than fact: the underlying spirit, all it stands for, the mood, the vastness, the wildness.
You come into the world alone and you go out of the world alone yet it seems to me you are more alone while living than even going and coming.
It is wonderful to feel the grandness of Canada in the raw.
I think that one's art is a growth inside one. I do not think one can explain growth. It is silent and subtle. One does not keep digging up a plant to see how it grows.
The artist himself may not think he is religious, but if he is sincere his sincerity in itself is religion.
I sat staring, staring, staring - half lost, learning a new language or rather the same language in a different dialect. So still were the big woods where I sat, sound might not yet have been born.
Be careful that you do not write or paint anything that is not your own, that you don't know in your own soul.
You always feel when you look it straight in the eye that you could have put more into it, could have let yourself go and dug harder.
You will have to experiment and try things out for yourself and you will not be sure of what you are doing. That's all right, you are feeling your way into the thing.
The men resent a woman getting any honour in what they consider is essentially their field. Men painters mostly despise women painters. So I have decided to stop squirming, to throw any honour in with Canada and women.
Perfectly ordered disorder designed with a helter-skelter magnificence.
Twenty can't be expected to tolerate sixty in all things, and sixty gets bored stiff with twenty's eternal love affairs.
"There are three things extremely hard: steel, a diamond, and to know one's self."
"If passion drives you, let reason hold the reins."
"Never confuse motion with action."
"Mine is better than ours."
"Beauty and folly are old companions."
"Content makes poor men rich; discontent makes rich men poor."
"If all printers were determined not to print anything till they were sure it would offend nobody, there would be very little printed."
"When in doubt, don't."
"He that would live in peace and at ease must not speak all he knows or all he sees."
"Whatever is begun in anger ends in shame."
"God helps those who help themselves."
"Work as if you were to live a hundred years. Pray as if you were to die tomorrow."
"If you know how to spend less than you get, you have the philosopher's stone."
"He that sows thorns should never go barefoot."
"When befriended, remember it; when you befriend, forget it."
"Buy what thou hast no need of and ere long thou shalt sell thy necessities."
"If you would be loved, love, and be loveable."
"Your net worth to the world is usually determined by what remains after your bad habits are subtracted from your good ones."
"Any fool can criticize, condemn and complain - and most fools do."
"Where liberty is, there is my country."
"How few there are who have courage enough to own their faults, or resolution enough to mend them."
"He that is good for making excuses is seldom good for anything else."
"Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of."
"One today is worth two tomorrows."
"There never was a truly great man that was not at the same time truly virtuous."
"Fatigue is the best pillow."
"Laws too gentle are seldom obeyed; too severe, seldom executed."
"Leisure is the time for doing something useful. This leisure the diligent person will obtain the lazy one never."
"Savages we call them because their manners differ from ours."
"I should have no objection to go over the same life from its beginning to the end: requesting only the advantage authors have, of correcting in a second edition the faults of the first."
"It is easier to prevent bad habits than to break them."
"When you're finished changing, you're finished."
"Who is rich? He that rejoices in his portion."
"He that raises a large family does, indeed, while he lives to observe them, stand a broader mark for sorrow; but then he stands a broader mark for pleasure too."
"Diligence is the mother of good luck."
"Each year one vicious habit discarded, in time might make the worst of us good."
"He that is of the opinion money will do everything may well be suspected of doing everything for money."
"The doorstep to the temple of wisdom is a knowledge of our own ignorance."
"To succeed, jump as quickly at opportunities as you do at conclusions."
"There are two ways of being happy: We must either diminish our wants or augment our means - either may do - the result is the same and it is for each man to decide for himself and to do that which happens to be easier."
"Being ignorant is not so much a shame, as being unwilling to learn."
"Even peace may be purchased at too high a price."
"He that can have patience can have what he will."
"Hide not your talents. They for use were made. What's a sundial in the shade?"
"Honesty is the best policy."
"If time be of all things the most precious, wasting time must be the greatest prodigality."
"If you would not be forgotten as soon as you are dead, either write something worth reading or do things worth writing."
"Rebellion against tyrants is obedience to God."
"Some people die at 25 and aren't buried until 75."
"Take time for all things: great haste makes great waste."
"Wise men don't need advice. Fools won't take it."
"In my youth, I traveled much, and I observed in different countries, that the more public provisions were made for the poor, the less they provided for themselves, and of course became poorer. And, on the contrary, the less was done for them, the more they did for themselves, and became richer."
"A good conscience is a continual Christmas."
"Speak ill of no man, but speak all the good you know of everybody."
"Tomorrow, every Fault is to be amended; but that Tomorrow never comes."
"From a child I was fond of reading, and all the little money that came into my hands was ever laid out in books. Pleased with the 'Pilgrim's Progress,' my first collection was of John Bunyan's works in separate little volumes."
"Those who govern, having much business on their hands, do not generally like to take the trouble of considering and carrying into execution new projects. The best public measures are therefore seldom adopted from previous wisdom, but forced by the occasion."
"A house is not a home unless it contains food and fire for the mind as well as the body."
"Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will learn in no other."
"To Follow by faith alone is to follow blindly."
"Write your injuries in dust, your benefits in marble."
"An egg today is better than a hen to-morrow."
"Blessed is he that expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed."
"Remember not only to say the right thing in the right place, but far more difficult still, to leave unsaid the wrong thing at the tempting moment."
"Tricks and treachery are the practice of fools, that don't have brains enough to be honest."
"A penny saved is a penny earned."
"Most people return small favors, acknowledge medium ones and repay greater ones - with ingratitude."
"Never leave that till tomorrow which you can do today."
"There are three faithful friends - an old wife, an old dog, and ready money."
"Rather go to bed with out dinner than to rise in debt."
"The absent are never without fault, nor the present without excuse."
"If a man could have half of his wishes, he would double his troubles."
"When men and woman die, as poets sung, his heart's the last part moves, her last, the tongue."
"Wars are not paid for in wartime, the bill comes later."
"All who think cannot but see there is a sanction like that of religion which binds us in partnership in the serious work of the world."
"So convenient a thing it is to be a reasonable creature, since it enables one to find or make a reason for every thing one has a mind to do."
"The doors of wisdom are never shut."
"When will mankind be convinced and agree to settle their difficulties by arbitration?"
"Do good to your friends to keep them, to your enemies to win them."
"I didn't fail the test, I just found 100 ways to do it wrong."
"A great empire, like a great cake, is most easily diminished at the edges."
"It is a grand mistake to think of being great without goodness and I pronounce it as certain that there was never a truly great man that was not at the same time truly virtuous."
"Eat to please thyself, but dress to please others."
"If you desire many things, many things will seem few."
"A countryman between two lawyers is like a fish between two cats."
"A man wrapped up in himself makes a very small bundle."
"All mankind is divided into three classes: those that are immovable, those that are movable, and those that move."

